+++
title="[Spice-01] : Basics of NGSPICE"
date=2023-01-14
draft=false
[taxonomies]
tags=["vlsi", "spice", "electronics","circuit","core"]
+++

## Installation
 If you are on Arch

 ``` sudo pacman -S ngspice```

 If you are using Ubuntu/Debian using apt

 ``` sudo apt-add-repository multiverse```<br>
 ``` sudo apt install ngspice```

 If you are using Windows, Get yourself a cup of coffee since, You are on your own. I am helpless. 

 ## Concept 

 > ngspice is the open source spice simulator for electric and electronic circuits. Such a circuit may comprise of JFETs, bipolar and MOS transistors, passive elements like R, L, or C, diodes, transmission lines and other devices, all interconnected in a netlist. Digital circuits are simulated as well, event driven and fast, from single gates to complex circuits. And you may enter the combination of both analog and digital as a mixed-signal circuit.

## Process
 
Entire process of analysing any given circuit in NGSPICE is divided into 3 major parts.

1. Designing the circuit using Netlist.
2. Simulating the circuit using available modes. 
3. Running the Simulation and snapping the output.

`Netlist` : It is a schema or even in more layman terms a format or data structure which takes some input keys from us and based on that input, ngspice has the ability to interpret the circuit using the most basic laws of electronics which are KVL and KCL. 

`Simulation` : There are different modes of simulation possible like DC Analysis, AC Analysis, Transient Analysis etc. for a designed circuit and we can perform all of them in ngspice. 

You can store the circuit simulation outputs in postscript fileformat which are very much similar to PDFs. 

## Template Code

This is the template code which I would be directly levaraging in every code and it actually makes things easier to analyse. 

```
* Give Title to the circuit. 
.title WRITE TITLE HERE

* Define Models in case you are using
.model [Custom_Name] [Model_Name] [Model_Parameters]

* Define the Netlist (Here are some common components to be used)
// Resistor
R1 [Terminal-1] [Terminal-2] [Value]
// Voltage 
V1 [Terminal-1] [Terminal-2] [Source-Type] [Value]
// Capacitor
C1 [Terminal-1] [Terminal-2] [Value]
// Inductor
L1 [Terminal-1] [Terminal-2] [Value]
// BJT 
Q1 [Terminal-1] [Terminal-2] [Terminal-3] [Model-Name] [Extra-Parameters]
// MOSFET
M1 [Terminal-1] [Terminal-2] [Terminal-3] [Model-Name] [Extra-Parameters]
and many more....

* Control Statements (To run the simulation)
.control
 run
 plot [parameters]
 set hcopydevtype = postscript
 hardcopy title.ps [parameters]
.endc
.end
```

I hope, My comments in the code makes the usage of commands more clear but as our ancestors having shakingly in this sphere said "With Practice comes a man with Perfection" So, I would very much recommand to keep practicing the circuits. You can already find those circuits in upcoming tutorial sections. Don't forget to Bookmark the Spice tutorails which I am crafting out. Click on tags below to filter them out. See you in next one. 
